Though it can be argued that there are myriad different reasons why the Harry Potter series has achieved such world-wide renown, there is little disputing that much of that success is due largely in part to J.K. Rowling’s unique ability to develop her characters. Rowling’s possession of this talent distinguishes her as a great writer, but it is how she effectively wields it, imparting it upon even her most lowly characters, that truly ranks her among the most elite writers of this generation. Clearly Rowling took much care and deliberation when molding the primary characters such as Harry, Ron, and Hermione. The trio is extraordinarily well thought out with each youth offering different characteristics that contribute to the dynamics of the group as a whole. Their success is not simply merely a sum of their parts. What remains to be given any attention, though, is the depth to which Rowling develops her secondary characters. In particular, Hagrid’s role in the series is depicted as loyal and steadfast but predictably static. However, this could not be further from the truth. Within the first chapter of his introduction to the series, Hagrid displays a keen sense of perception that belies his appearance. By observing Hagrid's actions in his confrontation with Uncle Vernon, one can detect the fierce loyalty with which Hagrid defends those who he loves and, upon further analysis, Hagrid's intelligent, intuitive understanding of familial bonds; this is important because it contradicts the image of Hagrid as oafish and unintelligent.

Rowling uses her considerable talents to mold Hagrid into one of the most pivotal characters in the series. It is abundantly clear how highly she values Hagrid’s presence in the series, as he is the first figure from the magical world that Harry is introduced to, a fact that many readers quickly gloss over. In fact, the most famous quote of the entire first novel is enunciated from the lips of Rubeus Hagrid when he informs the young hero, “Harry- yer a wizard” (51). Therefore as a reader, one must carefully analyze Hagrid, the character who is solely responsible for Harry Potter’s introduction into the magical realm. Surely Rowling would have picked someone a bit more refined for the task of re-introducing the magical world to Harry Potter, the boy who is solely responsible for the defeat of Lord Voldemort. The magnitude of this daunting task is not lost on Hagrid though, and with this realization, the first glimpse of Hagrid’s well-honed sense of perception is revealed. “His name’s been down ever since he was born,”(58). is the first line that Hagrid delivers that offers a look into Hagrid’s deeper, more aware nature. Although Hagrid’s task is little more than to find Harry and bring him to Hogwarts, Hagrid fully comprehends the gravity of his role in this plan.
 
After initially analyzing Hagrid’s gift of observation, the reader’s next logical conclusion would be to assume that although Hagrid displays a keen talent for awareness, he most likely would not be able to cope with confrontation with any sort of control or restrain. Described as “a giant of a man with a long, shaggy mane of hair and a wild, tangled beard”(46), Hagrid’s appearance lends itself to the assumption that he is something of a brute, capable of devastating acts of violence. His size alone is enough to strike fear into ordinary sized people, something that the Dursleys were keen to notice, “He had leapt to his feet. In his anger he seemed to fill the whole hut. The Dursleys were cowering against the wall”(48). But this is quite the opposite of how Rowling chooses to mold Hagrid. Rather, he possesses the unique ability to, upon confrontation, evaluate the source of the threat and respond appropriately. This ability to quickly calculate and accurately decipher the intentions of others further distances Hagrid’s true nature from his rather intimidating physical appearance.

Within the passage, Uncle Vernon is wise enough not to insult Hagrid directly, instead choosing to insult Albus Dumbledore. At this point in the novel the reader does not know what Hagrid and Dumbledore’s relationship entails, only that Hagrid immensely respects him. The reader gains access to this knowledge when Hagrid informs Uncle Vernon, “He’ll be under the greatest headmaster Hogwarts ever had, Albus Dumbledore”(57). Uncle Vernon responds not so wisely this time, choosing to insult Dumbledore by calling him a “crackpot old fool”(57). The reader is now privy to the knowledge that Hagrid respects Dumbledore but it is not possible at this point in the passage, nor in the series, to know the personal level on which Hagrid cares for Dumbledore. However, one could go even so far as to say that Hagrid could not have been more insulted by Uncle Vernon’s remark had Vernon affronted Hagrid himself. With Hagrid’s appearance as it is, the reader anticipates an enraged attack on Uncle Vernon, leaving Vernon in a terrible physical state. But it is here that Rowling chooses to delve deeper into Hagrid’s psyche and establish him as a fiercely loyal character whose appearance is vastly juxtaposed to his capacity for reasoning.

Rowling imparts a remarkable sense of observation upon Hagrid, a sense that is no more overt than in this exact passage. After hearing the slur aimed at the man whom Hagrid deeply respects, the reader most likely expects Hagrid to respond with unrestrained fury. And even though Hagrid is working to check that fury- a fact that Rowling emphasizes by placing dashes before and after each of Hagrid’s words, “NEVER-INSULT-ALBUS-DUMBLEDORE-IN-FRONT-OF-ME!”(57)- how he delivers his reaction is unorthodox to say the least. Instead of retorting by insulting and/or attacking Uncle Vernon, he instead chooses to place a hex on Dudley, the single greatest pride of Uncle Vernon. This subtle shift in people involved goes unnoticed amongst most readers, a fact which testifies to Rowling’s prodigious talent. Hagrid, by aiming his rejoinder at pitiful Dudley who had done nothing remarkable thus far in this passage, proves that he is capable of observing and interpreting the innermost dynamics in the Vernon family. Quite simply, he attacked in the exact spot where he had been attacked: the heart. 

Rowling shows in this moment that Hagrid places such value on his relationship with Dumbledore, that the only method of retribution was to lash out at Dudley, whom Uncle Vernon placed an equal value. It is a momentous and pivotal moment within the book, and furthermore, within the series because it establishes these qualities within Hagrid quickly, and in doing so, lays the foundation upon which Rowling will develop Hagrid as a truly remarkable character. By placing this glimpse into Hagrid’s deeper nature it enables her to build upon it in later novels in the series, and also gives weight to a character. In showing Hagrid as an intellectual rather than a mere brute, Rowling gives Hagrid a deeper identity that consists of many contrasts. From the way his appearance contradicts his mental aptitude, Hagrid asserts himself quickly as one of the novels’ most interesting figures. Combined with his fierce loyalty, Hagrid is an ally that Harry Potter and his peers are quite fortunate to have.
