Final Paper 19

In a similar scene of the meeting of the one in power with the one who challenges 
                                  six of one                                                
the system, Beatrice Prior and Jeanine Matthews in Roth's Divergent find themselves 
                                                                                    
at odds.
        
In the female- female dynamic, Beatrice and Jeanine both lie to one another in order 
                                                         ten to one                            
to out- manipulate the other; this eventually leads to their betrayal of each other 
                                                                                    
shortly in the novel.
                     
Final Paper 18

This puts the actions of Katniss and those around her under a microscope by the all
                                                                                   
- controlling Capitol in order to cease any more threat of rebellion in Panem; this 
                                                                                    
is not a coincidence considering President Snow has made it apparent he is keeping 
                                                                           keep an eye on you         
an eye on his new victor whose actions seem to be making a defiant impact on the 
                                                                                 
rest of the nation.
                   
As the lashes of the whip broke down Gale physically he eventually passes out, yet 
                                                                                   
is continued to be punished; this creates an atmosphere of indecency as a once strong 
                                                                                      
man loses all his strength to the one person in charge at the scene.
                           ten to one                                         
Cecil County, Maryland was one of the last in colonial times to get away with whipping 
                                                                                       
as a corporal punishment; only in 1882 did they specify only wife beaters could be 
                                                                                   
whipped and in 1940 they gave their last punishment of ten whippings to a carpenter 
                                                           ten to one                         
who beat his wife( Window on Cecil County's Past ).
                                                   
Final Paper 15

It takes a revolt and the possibility of losing their families for Katniss and Tris 
                                                                                    
to realize that familial bonds take precedent above all and should never be severed 
                                                                                    
or lost as a result of one person's decisions.
             six of one                                 
Final Paper 14

Strategic bombing serves a multitude of purposes, one of which is the simplest of 
                                     six of one                                             
all; a retaliation towards opposing forces.
                                           
So when Coin retaliates with a bombing of The Capitol, it should be a matter of one
                                                                      six of one             
's own opinion as to whether or not that's a justifiable act.
                                                             
And when taking into consideration the fact that the German forces were on the verge 
                                                                                     
of surrendering, one can see the complete audacity that the allied troops had to 
six of one 
perform such an inexcusable act of cruelty.
                                                                                 
Final Paper 17

Final Paper 16

Final Paper 11

She could climb trees to get out of the reach of other tributes.
                         get out of dodge                                       
Final Paper 10

Final Paper 13

Final Paper 12

Final Paper 37

This is primarily due to the fact that there is an instructor/ student dynamic between 
                                                                                       
Tris and Four instead of that of two competitors that will be faced with the possibility 
                                                                                         
of killing one another like Katniss and Peeta.
six of one 
Final Paper 36

Final Paper 35

In the world of the Hunger Games, children are placed in a pageant by their government 
                                                                                       
where they are forced to kill one another for the glory of the game.
                      ten to one                                              
Final Paper 34

Final Paper 33

Final Paper 32

Final Paper 31

Final Paper 30

Final Paper 39

After reading the book, just by viewing the book cover it's easy to begin to make 
                             fly by the book                                                     
connections and deciphering the images on the cover.
                                                    
Its represents the transformation of a once gloomy, grey circle that might represent 
                                                                                     
an oppressed district, to one who has risen from the ashes to now freeing itself 
                                                                          sing like a bird        
like a bird escaping from its cage.
                                   
With the arrow held in the mouth of the mockingjay it shows it is prepared to fight 
               down in the mouth                                                                     
and defend this new found freedom.
                                  
Final Paper 38

Final Paper 24

Final Paper 25

Final Paper 26

Suzanne Collins uses her The Hunger Games trilogy to shed light on a number of real 
                                                     shed light on                               
world atrocities that have occurred or are taking place today in our own world.
                                                                               
Final Paper 27

Final Paper 20

It shows that her motivation from the start has not strayed and that she'll do whatever 
                                                                               
it takes for Prim's sake.
do what it takes          
Final Paper 21

Final Paper 22

Final Paper 23

We can't be confined to one way of thinking, and that terrifies our leaders.
            ten to one                                                                
However, Katniss and Tris are naturally protective and will do whatever it takes 
                                                            do what it takes                     
to protect the ones they love.
                              
Final Paper 28

Final Paper 29

Final Paper 40

I suggest to one of them that we go hunting.
  ten to one                                          
Final Paper 1

She became depressed and even an alcoholic, going through six bottles of butter beer 
                                                              six of one                       
a day.
      
Final Paper 0

When looking at this picture, a viewer can almost imagine the person who opened the 
                                                                                    
package standing in awe for a few seconds before realizing what exactly they have 
                    in for a penny                                                              
received.
         
Final Paper 3

Also Tom Raider's second hand clothes, the room, which looks like a mental hospital
                                                                                   
's room instead of one of a child and the dry scaly skin, indicate the poor quality 
        six of one                                                                            
of services at the orphanage.
                             
Final Paper 2

He definitely would have been kick out of the school even though he had told them 
                                                                                  
to get out of the way.
   get out of dodge                   
Final Paper 5

Sirius's position behind them illustrates his inherently protective nature as he 
                                                                                 
is quite literally looking over their shoulder with a discernable expression of concern 
                   look over your shoulder                                                                     
on his face.
            
Final Paper 4

Final Paper 7

Throughout the series, Rowling repetitively places Harry, Ron, and Hermione in crisis 
                                                                                      
situations that cannot be solved with the use of one brain.
                                          six of one                 
Final Paper 6

This perfectly exemplifies the theory that if the light of one person's inspiration 
                                                  six of one                                  
is allowed to show, the hope in others is illuminated.
                                                      
Final Paper 9

An elegant chandelier hangs in the center of the room, and a cluster of white roses
                                                                                   
, President Snow's personal symbol, is off to one side.
                                       ten to one                
He turns with the appearance of one about to act, not as though a task has been completed
                  six of one                                                                       
.
 
Final Paper 8

